
Programming Skills: Object-oriented and Functional Javascript programming 
with ES5 & ES6 standard specifications ,Typescript, JQuery, HTML5, CSS3, Boostrap 3 & 4, 
NodeJS & ExpressJS. 
GIS Programming Skills: Openlayers 2 & 3 & Leaflet 0.x & 1.x .
Databases: PostGreSQL 9.x & 10.x & PostGIS 2.x, Sql Server 2019.
GIS Applications: QGIS 2.x and 3.x, Geoserver 2.x


Programming Skills: C,C#.NET & ASP.NET
GIS Programming Skills: MapTalks, D3, MapBox, ArcGIS Server Java Script API 3.x & 4.x, Arc Objects, Arc GIS desktop.
Databases: MySQL 5.x.
GIS Applications: ArcGIS Desktop (ArcMap), ArcSDE, ESRI ArcGIS Server 9.x & 10.x



Understanding and translating requirements into design for software development.
Analyze and interpret data to ensure quality and maintain processes relate to geospatial data.
-- Spatial database design and querying.
-- Publish and consume web GIS services using Geo Server map server deployment.
-- Developing Geo-Spatial applications using various data sources.
Bug Free unit Testing.
Providing end to end solution with Data Flow Diagrams and Flowcharts at initial and final phases of Application development .
Maintain application and database accessibility, integrity, and recoverability. 
Monitor system performance, recommend and participate in performance tuning activities.


-- Attend meetings to resolve any issues related to maps, processes and spatial data with
geo-database.
-- Work with multiple departments to pursue, manage and deliver projects.
-- Develop web mapping applications and geo-processing tools to support GIS.
Understand requirements and develop GIS application to meet business needs.
Identifying issues and providing resolutions.
Make documentations of every aspect to clearly understand the GIS application.
Maintain and support application according to changing business requirements.
Assist in data integrity and quality assurance activities to ensure application stability.
Stay current with latest developments in GIS field.
Ensure that application architecture meets business requirements.
Design, code and integrate application with database management systems.
Test applications and perform bug fixes.
Develop system problem reports and recommendations.
Propose development initiatives to increase programming efficiency.


 
 Developed software applications by which the organization can claim them as a proprietary softwares.
 
 - Indoor Routing Application with Impediments and Barriers (SPAX)
 - Buffer Analytical Application. (PROPERTY DREAMZ)
 - Network Analytical Application. (PROPERTY DREAMZ)
 
 Also , the above mentioned applications can be used as a service (API or Web Service) for third parties which would be a easier solution to integrate it into their websites/platforms.
 
 Developed from scratch a new process flow for the project by reducing the SLOC(Source Line of Code) of every application developed and the cut down of software by enhancing it to a new technologies which increased the performance and efficiency. 
 
 

Good in GIS Development and thorough with various Web Mapping API’s and Servers
Strong front-end web development experience with HTML5, CSS3 and JavaScript libraries like jQuery, Node.js, Express.js.
Solid knowledge in spatial data creation and management. Spatial analysis and predictive modeling.
Having good knowledge in Designing, Developing and Deploying GIS solutions that involve integration using database management, geospatial application programming and well published OGC web services (WMS/WFS/WCS) and API’s (REST, SOAP, e.t.c).
 
 
 GIS Technical Certifications(Web/Desktop/Mobile/SDE)


Explore and learn 3D-View Mapping Libraries.

Explore and learn new frameworks for building native mobile apps in Javascript.
Enhance my technical skills and get updated with new technologies


Three.JS,WebGL,Jquery Mapel,React,Meteor.JS,Vue.JS,AngularJS,MongoDB 

Python ,React Native,Big Data, Digital Marketing





interpersonal skills \ team work
A team player,good listener,highly energetic, willing to extend myself, help others, with a positive attitude.
Work effectively in a team to develop high quality GIS solutions.
Participate actively in the design, development, and management of associated RDBMSs.
Interact regularly with GIS Engineers and GIS Analysts to ensure that web presentation of data is consistent with internal databases and their processes and methods.

oral \ written communication skills
Consult with Project Managers on system design, functionality and support requirements
Keep a key contact with product managers regarding support issues, evaluations, enhancements, etc.
Report problems and enhancement requests to analysts and digitizers.

attendance punctuality
Attend reviews and meetings on daily basis.

personality traits
Self-motivated,Team Spirit,Super-passionate about the reach of technology, and when it comes to conquering new frontiers, I will be there in the forefront.

professionalism
Loyal,trustworthy and respectful

learning and adaptibility
Learn new technologies and techniques for application development.
Ability to independently troubleshoot and perform root cause analysis against diverse data environments

leadership qualities
Take complete responsibility from development to delivery and coordinate with other team members for data input and assessment.


